---
title: '📺 Study: Romans 4:13-25 God Fulfills His Promises, Not Us'
author: Joseph Louthan
publishDate: 2021-03-14T06:00:00-06:00
url: /bible-study/2021-03-14-study-romans/
categories:
  - Bible Study
tags:
  - "Romans"
series:
  - "Bible Study: Romans"
tocopen: true
css: "home-devos"
draft: false
---
## The Text

>Romans 4:13-25 (CSB) For the promise to Abraham or to his descendants that he would inherit the world was not through the law, but through the righteousness that comes by faith. 14 If those who are of the law are heirs, faith is made empty and the promise nullified, 15 because the law produces wrath. And where there is no law, there is no transgression.
>
>16 This is why the promise is by faith, so that it may be according to grace, to guarantee it to all the descendants—not only to the one who is of the law but also to the one who is of Abraham’s faith. He is the father of us all. 17 As it is written: I have made you the father of many nations —in the presence of the God in whom he believed,the one who gives life to the dead and calls things into existence that do not exist.

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## The Support

### The promises of God are not in our obedience of the law but by faith alone

>Romans 4:13-25 (CSB) For the promise to Abraham or to his descendants that he would inherit the world was not through the law, but through the righteousness that comes by faith. 14 If those who are of the law are heirs, faith is made empty and the promise nullified, 15 because the law produces wrath. And where there is no law, there is no transgression.

### The promises of God are by faith according to the grace of God

>16 This is why the promise is by faith, so that it may be according to grace, to guarantee it to all the descendants—not only to the one who is of the law but also to the one who is of Abraham’s faith. He is the father of us all.

>2 Corinthians 1:20 (CSB) For every one of God’s promises is “Yes” in him. Therefore, through him we also say “Amen” to the glory of God.

>Galatians 3:5-9 (CSB) So then, does God give you the Spirit and work miracles among you by your doing the works of the law? Or is it by believing what you heard—6 just like Abraham who believed God, and it was credited to him for righteousness?
>
>7 You know, then, that those who have faith, these are Abraham’s sons. 8 Now the Scripture saw in advance that God would justify the Gentiles by faith and proclaimed the gospel ahead of time to Abraham, saying, All the nations will be blessed through you. 9 Consequently, those who have faith are blessed with Abraham, who had faith.

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

`Where do you see God in the text? What does the text say about God?`

## God

### The promises of God are guaranteed by God who alone creates and gives life

>17 As it is written: I have made you the father of many nations —in the presence of the God in whom he believed,the one who gives life to the dead and calls things into existence that do not exist.

In our Genesis series, I specifically referenced the creation and beginning of the life of mankind by God's righteousness [(Genesis 2:4-25)](https://theologic.us/bible-study/2021-07-22-study-genesis/) for this very reason. Because God alone is God and in his Godship are the fullest, maxed out everything that in him as God. God alone is God and God alone is Creator and Lord over our lives because He alone is righteousness and holy and just and good and love and glorious.

How many times are we going to quote Ezekiel 36? One million if I can help it. But what is the response of God Almighty in Ezekiel 37 to his precious gospel being preached in Ezekiel 36?

>Ezekiel 37:3-5 (CSB) Then he said to me, “Son of man, can these bones live?”
>
>I replied, “Lord GOD, only you know.”
>
>4 He said to me, “Prophesy concerning these bones and say to them: Dry bones, hear the word of the LORD! 5 This is what the Lord GOD says to these bones: I will cause breath to enter you, and you will live.

And I don't have time to get into all of chapter 37. But guess what happens? The bones LIVED!

Keep reading in Ezekiel 37 and watch something interesting happens:

>Ezekiel 37:11-13 (CSB) Then he said to me, “Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Look how they say, ‘Our bones are dried up, and our hope has perished; we are cut off.’ 12 Therefore, prophesy and say to them, ‘This is what the Lord GOD says: I am going to open your graves and bring you up from them, my people, and lead you into the land of Israel. 13 You will know that I am the LORD, my people, when I open your graves and bring you up from them.

Where have we heard that before?

>John 11:41-44 (CSB) So they removed the stone. Then Jesus raised his eyes and said, “Father, I thank you that you heard me. 42 I know that you always hear me, but because of the crowd standing here I said this, so that they may believe you sent me.” 43 After he said this, he shouted with a loud voice, “Lazarus, come out!” 44 The dead man came out bound hand and foot with linen strips and with his face wrapped in a cloth. Jesus said to them, “Unwrap him and let him go.”

Why is that?

>John 11:23-27 (CSB) “Your brother will rise again,” Jesus told her.
>
>24 Martha said to him, “I know that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day.”
>
>25 Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me, even if he dies, will live. 26 Everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this?”
>
>27 “Yes, Lord,” she told him, “I believe you are the Messiah, the Son of God, who comes into the world.”

In other words...

### God alone fulfills his promises

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## The Gospel

### Here is the gospel commandment of God: believe in Him, even when it looks like your hoping against hope

>18 He believed, hoping against hope, so that he became the father of many nations according to what had been spoken: So will your descendants be.

Paul will sum up all of the first half of Romans in this precious way:

>Romans 8:24-25 (CSB) Now in this hope we were saved, but hope that is seen is not hope, because who hopes for what he sees? 25 Now if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it with patience.

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## Our Responsibility

How on earth do we do that?

Again and again, I preach to you, our faith does not come from within us. The Almighty God must give us His Spirit and His Son and true life in order to believe and trust in him.

### Do not weaken in the faith: the Triune God is in you

>19 He did not weaken in faith when he considered his own body to be already dead (since he was about a hundred years old) and also the deadness of Sarah’s womb.

### Do not waver in unbelief: the promises of God are yes and amen

>20 He did not waver in unbelief at God’s promise but was strengthened in his faith and gave glory to God, 21 because he was fully convinced that what God had promised, he was also able to do.

### Do not indulge in self-righteousness--you are going to need a righteousness that is completely alien to you and give to you as a free gift from someone outside of yourself

22 Therefore, it was credited to him for righteousness. 23 Now it was credited to him was not written for Abraham alone, but also for us.

### This is not the faith of your grandma, your parents, your pastor, or your best bud--you are called to believe in his Son

24b  It will be credited to us who believe in him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. 25 He was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification.

You believe. You trust. You obey.

What happens in a instance? God gifts you his righteousness. Now you get to be with him forever and ever.

## Pray

<div style="font-variant: small-caps;">
My Sin Remover
</div>
&nbsp;

Wash me clean. Make me your child.

Amen.

## Media

Today's episode at [The Study](http://study.theologic.us/podcast/study-romans-413-25-god-fulfills-his-promises-not-us)

[Live on Twitch!](http://twitch.theologic.us) || [YouTube](http://youtube.theologic.us) || [Discord](http://discord.theologic.us) || [Apple](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-study/id1557102127) || [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/0Xs5qsNvWePyRqcmtOTPkR)
