---
title: '📺 Study: Romans 4:6-12 God Justifies, Not Us'
author: Joseph Louthan
publishDate: 2021-03-13T06:00:00-06:00
url: /bible-study/2021-03-13-study-romans/
categories:
  - Bible Study
tags:
  - "Romans"
series:
  - "Bible Study: Romans"
tocopen: true
css: "home-devos"
draft: false
---
## The Text

>Romans 4:6–12 (CSB) Just as David also speaks of the blessing of the person to whom God credits righteousness apart from works:
>
>Blessed are those whose lawless acts are forgiven  
>and whose sins are covered.  
>Blessed is the person  
>the Lord will never charge with sin.  
>
>Is this blessing only for the circumcised, then? Or is it also for the uncircumcised? For we say, Faith was credited to Abraham for righteousness. In what way, then, was it credited—while he was circumcised, or uncircumcised? It was not while he was circumcised, but uncircumcised. And he received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while still uncircumcised. This was to make him the father of all who believe but are not circumcised, so that righteousness may be credited to them also. And he became the father of the circumcised, who are not only circumcised but who also follow in the footsteps of the faith our father Abraham had while he was still uncircumcised.

## The Support

### Old Testament saints were justified by God because they believed--not because they fulfilled a checklist of duties

>Romans 4:6–7 (CSB) Just as David also speaks of the blessing of the person to whom God credits righteousness apart from works:
>
>Blessed are those whose lawless acts are forgiven  
>and whose sins are covered.  
>Blessed is the person  
>the Lord will never charge with sin.  

We might engage the Old Testament and be tempted as the Israelites, "All I have to do is go through the motions and God will do my bidding." And I don't think anybody would dare say that with their mouths. But some of us live our lives this way: I am a Christian, why are bad things happening to me?"

>Jeremiah 9:25–26 (CSB) “ ‘Look, the days are coming—this is the LORD’s declaration—when I will punish all the circumcised yet uncircumcised: Egypt, Judah, Edom, the Ammonites, Moab, and all the inhabitants of the desert who clip the hair on their temples. All these nations are uncircumcised, and the whole house of Israel is uncircumcised in heart.’ ”

Let me put it in another way

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

`Where do you see God in the text? What does the text say about God?`

## God

### God is not a idol that we can be saved by our actions--God asks for every square inch of your heart and soul--nothing less

God has consistently never been satisfied with the bare minimum. Just something you can do once and be done with Him.

Now, Abraham believed and it was counted to him as righteousness. But you say to yourself, "oh, he obeyed God and then God said he was righteous." Paul is here to remind us of our history lessons:

>Romans 4:9-10 (CSB) Is this blessing only for the circumcised, then? Or is it also for the uncircumcised? For we say, Faith was credited to Abraham for righteousness. In what way, then, was it credited—while he was circumcised, or uncircumcised? It was not while he was circumcised, but uncircumcised.

Now Abraham believed in God before he could do one singular thing in obeying God.

And if you think that this is the first time we have seen this prior to Abraham, that would not be the case. Go backwards...

Noah:

>Genesis 6:7-9 (CSB) Then the LORD said, “I will wipe mankind, whom I created, off the face of the earth, together with the animals, creatures that crawl, and birds of the sky—for I regret that I made them.” Noah, however, found favor with the LORD.
>
>These are the family records of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, blameless among his contemporaries; Noah walked with God.

Adam and Eve. God preaches the gospel:

>Genesis 3:15 (CSB) I will put hostility between you and the woman,  
>and between your offspring and her offspring.  
>He will strike your head,  
>and you will strike his heel.

... then they believe:

>Genesis 3:21 (CSB) The LORD God made clothing from skins for the man and his wife, and he clothed them.

God gives grace. Then they were obedient but not until He gave grace first for them to believe.

If you walk away from this study not knowing anything about the God of the Bible, then know and see that God is consistent. In other words, God is perfect.

God called Abraham in Genesis 12. Abraham believed. Then God gives the commandment for circumcise in Genesis 17:

>Genesis 17:11 (CSB) You must circumcise the flesh of your foreskin to serve as a sign of the covenant between me and you.

Was God calling Abraham to hack off some foreskin just so Abraham can check the list off so that Abraham can go about his merry way? No! God's dealing with us was always a matter of the heart.

>Jeremiah 4:4 (CSB)  
>Circumcise yourselves to the LORD;  
>remove the foreskin of your hearts,  
>men of Judah and residents of Jerusalem.  
>Otherwise, my wrath will break out like fire  
>and burn with no one to extinguish it  
>because of your evil deeds.

Look at the words of Christ as he quotes the prophet Hosea:

>Matthew 9:13 (CSB) Go and learn what this means: I desire mercy and not sacrifice. For I didn’t come to call the righteous, but sinners.”

## The Gospel

Here is the good news. But for you hear the good news, you got to start with the bad news.

When I think about the salvation of man and God's gospel commandment to repent and believe in his Son, I often think of the words of professional bodybuilder, consecutive Mr. Olympia Ronnie Coleman:

>>Everybody wants to be a bodybuilder, but nobody wants to lift no heavy-a** weights.
>>\- Ronnie Coleman

Here's the truth: here in America, it is easy peasy to be a Christian. Not too long ago, it used to be advantageous and encouraged to be in church. Why? That looked good to your neighbor and your friends at work. And what was the worst that you had to do? Show up on Sunday for an hour and half, the song are decent and the preacher wasn't saying anything too hard.

Nowadays and coming up fast, it is not that advantageous to be a Christian. You don't gain favor with your neighbor or co-worker by going to your local church.

People in church often talk about there is a fallen away from the church. What if people stopped going to church because there wasn't anything in it for them anymore? They didn't want to pretend. They didn't get anything out of it. They didn't see the commandments of God to be absolutely obeyed. They didn't see God to be feared, awed, revered, nor worship. Why? Their parents didn't believe. They went to church but what was preached from the pulpit didn't match up with what was lived out at home or in town.

Used to, during the height of church attendance twenty years ago, it was easy to look like a Christian because the requirements were easy. But have the preacher preach the full council of God, life's circumstances kick you in the gut, or the Holy Spirit keep pressing you on your ongoing unconfessed unrepentant sins, and suddenly, it ain't easy to be a Christian. Read the Bible and suddenly, you see what it really costs to be discple of Christ.

It costs you everything.

If costs you everything in your heart.

You are going to have to give up all of your sin.

And you have been here before. You have confessed, cried, promised, scream, rationalized, and blamed others for your sin. But be honest with yourself: you don't want to give up your sin. Don't you. That is the part of your heart that God wants.

Everybody wants to look like a Christian but nobody wants to give over their entire lives over to God. Everybody wants to be good but nobody wants to obey God and take him at his full word. Everybody wants to get to heaven but so very few of us really want God for all of eternity.

For those of us who are at the end of our lives--the end of trying, the end of striving, the end of pretending, the end of everything--and just cry out to God to have their lives right now, look at the work of God:

>Deuteronomy 30:6 (CSB) The LORD your God will circumcise your heart and the hearts of your descendants, and you will love him with all your heart and all your soul so that you will live.

How? How does God circumcises your heart?

>Ezekiel 36:25–27 (CSB) I will also sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your impurities and all your idols. I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you; I will remove your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. I will place my Spirit within you and cause you to follow my statutes and carefully observe my ordinances.

Or to sum it up in another way:

>Ephesians 2:8–10 (CSB) For you are saved by grace through faith, and this is not from yourselves; it is God’s gift—not from works, so that no one can boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared ahead of time for us to do.

## Our Responsibility

We tend to point to something in our past and say, "Look, look! I did this on this day. That means I am saved." Said a prayer. Got baptized. Filled with the Spirit. Went to church. My parents are Christian. I've worked in ministry for some odd years.

I will never forget this teacher's response when one of his students and came up and asked him, "Excuse me, sir, are you a Christian?"

To which the teacher responded with, "You tell me."

What would people who *actually* know you say about you? In other words, do you keep pointing to this event back in the past to convince yourself that you are saved? Or can you point to God's grace today that you are not like you were yesterday or the month before or the day before?

Listen, this is what we know of God and his people:

- God disciplines his kids
- God conforms his kids to look his only begotten Son
- His steadfast love never ceases
- He gives grace upon grace
- His mercies are new every morning

You cannot save yourself. Only God saves. What is our responsibility? Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ every time you get up in the morning all the way until you go back to sleep. Confess your sins quickly. Change the way you live for the rest of your life. Yes, we are not going to do it perfect. In fact, when we try to obey him perfectly we are actually sinning--not unless we have trusted Christ with our whole heart and all of our sin. Only right then can you obey him.

## Pray

<div style="font-variant: small-caps;">
My Only Savior King
</div>
&nbsp;

Give me a new heart, new mind, new desires  just for you.

Open my eyes to see, my ears to hear, my tongue to speak, and life in my body to worship you.

Be my Savior.

Amen.

## Media

Today's episode at [The Study](http://study.theologic.us/podcast/study-romans-46-12-god-justifies-not-us)

[Live on Twitch!](http://twitch.theologic.us) || [YouTube](http://youtube.theologic.us) || [Discord](http://discord.theologic.us) || [Apple](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-study/id1557102127) || [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/0Xs5qsNvWePyRqcmtOTPkR)
