---
title: '📺 Study: Romans 5:12–21 God Reigns, Not Us'
author: Joseph Louthan
publishDate: 2021-03-17T06:00:00-06:00
url: /bible-study/2021-03-17-study-romans/
categories:
  - Bible Study
tags:
  - "Romans"
series:
  - "Bible Study: Romans"
tocopen: true
css: "home-devos"
draft: false
---
## The Introduction

## The Text

>Romans 5:12–21 (CSB)  
><sup> 12 </sup> Therefore, just as sin entered the world through one man, and death through sin, in this way death spread to all people, because all sinned. 

><sup> 13 </sup> In fact, sin was in the world before the law, but sin is not charged to a person’s account when there is no law. 

><sup> 14 </sup> Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those who did not sin in the likeness of Adam’s transgression. He is a type of the Coming One. 

><sup> 15 </sup> But the gift is not like the trespass. For if by the one man’s trespass the many died, how much more have the grace of God and the gift which comes through the grace of the one man Jesus Christ overflowed to the many. 

><sup> 16 </sup> And the gift is not like the one man’s sin, because from one sin came the judgment, resulting in condemnation, but from many trespasses came the gift, resulting in justification. 

><sup> 17 </sup> If by the one man’s trespass, death reigned through that one man, how much more will those who receive the overflow of grace and the gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man, Jesus Christ. 

><sup> 18 </sup> So then, as through one trespass there is condemnation for everyone, so also through one righteous act there is justification leading to life for everyone. 

><sup> 19 </sup> For just as through one man’s disobedience the many were made sinners, so also through the one man’s obedience the many will be made righteous. 

><sup> 20 </sup> The law came along to multiply the trespass. But where sin multiplied, grace multiplied even more 

><sup> 21 </sup> so that, just as sin reigned in death, so also grace will reign through righteousness, resulting in eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## The Support

### We have inherited Adam's sin--Adam's sin is imputed to us

><sup> 12 </sup> Therefore, just as sin entered the world through one man, and death through sin, in this way death spread to all people, because all sinned.

><sup> 13 </sup> In fact, sin was in the world before the law, but sin is not charged to a person’s account when there is no law. 

><sup> 14 </sup> Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those who did not sin in the likeness of Adam’s transgression. He is a type of the Coming One. 

- We can say that this is not fair. We cannot be held responsible for Adam's sin--this is true and we are not
- But what cannot deny is the effect of Adam's sin on life
- Look at what transpires soon thereafter Genesis 3: murder, pride, sexual immorality. And that is just Genesis 4.
- Remember things got so wicked that God was willing to do a reset on all mankind
- He did spare his people
- Murder, pride, sexual immorality--mankind is far far worse than Genesis 6.
- We are not responsible for Adam's sin but we are certainly affected by Adam's sin--down to our core. And the wages of sin--Adam's sin, my dad's sin, your sin, my sin, all sin, everybody's sin--is death.

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

**Where do you see God in the text? What does the text say about God?**

## God

### Believers--those who have simply trusted in Christ alone--inherit Christ's righteousness; Christ's righteousness is imputed to us

><sup> 15 </sup> But the gift is not like the trespass. For if by the one man’s trespass the many died, how much more have the grace of God and the gift which comes through the grace of the one man Jesus Christ overflowed to the many. 

><sup> 16 </sup> And the gift is not like the one man’s sin, because from one sin came the judgment, resulting in condemnation, but from many trespasses came the gift, resulting in justification. 

><sup> 17 </sup> If by the one man’s trespass, death reigned through that one man, how much more will those who receive the overflow of grace and the gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man, Jesus Christ.

### Because of that righteousness, we have been made alive in Christ

>1 Corinthians 15:20-22 (CSB) But as it is, Christ has been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. 21 For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead also comes through a man. 22 For just as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive.

- Genesis 2:4-25: I contended that when God made Adam and Eve and mankind, God's *intention* was to be **our forever righteousness**.
- Why do I say that? When God gave life--literally, breathed His Spirit into Adam--Adam was made fully alive. Eve was made fully alive.
- Adam and Eve were once fully alive because they were automatically right-standing in God.

>2 Corinthians 5:21 (CSB) He made the one who did not know sin to be sin for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## The Gospel

### Here is the good news: Christ rules over death

><sup> 18 </sup> So then, as through one trespass there is condemnation for everyone, so also through one righteous act there is justification leading to life for everyone. 

><sup> 19 </sup> For just as through one man’s disobedience the many were made sinners, so also through the one man’s obedience the many will be made righteous.

### Here is the good news: Christ has come to give us maxed out life--life eternal, life abundant, life beyond

>1 John 5:1 (CSB) Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God, and everyone who loves the Father also loves the one born of him.

>John 10:7-10 (CSB) Jesus said again, “Truly I tell you, I am the gate for the sheep. 8 All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep didn’t listen to them. 9 I am the gate. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved and will come in and go out and find pasture. 10 A thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I have come so that they may have life and have it in abundance. 

περισσός (perissos) beyond, extraordinary

- Life was suppose to be more than this
- That is why we worship anything--our hearts chase after anything that might fill the emptiness inside
- The eternity in your heart (Ecc 3:11) can only be completely satisfied by something or someone eternal
- God is the only one that fits that description

Through just bleakness. Nothing darker. Nothing deeper. Nothing more depressing. Nothing more opposite of God. Death. All of sin results in death. And Lazarus was not immune to this. Christ knew it.

When we refer to "righteous anger", we always refer to Christ flipping over tables and remark, "See, it is okay to be upset and occasionally flip over tables." Then we go about our days trying so hard not to get so upset.
What if flipping tables was not Jesus at his angriest? I can tell you it was not.

This. Right here. Christ was so full of anger, sadness, and grief because Death took one more loved one away. Christ could have had the last word--he was heading to the Cross. But in his righteous anger and sadness, He decides to do something right now. He commands Death to stand down and he calls Life into a person that belong to Him forever.

Because of the sin of our original father, Adam, sin and death reigned and ruled over all of of mankind.

Because of the righteousness of Christ who was joyfully obedient to the point of death--even death on the cross, his people were saved from their sins and death.

We have put our trust in the one who has championed over Death. Christ Jesus is his name!

It is an absolute fact: "You shall name Him, Jesus, for he will save His people from their sins."

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## Our Responsibility

><sup> 20 </sup> The law came along to multiply the trespass. But where sin multiplied, grace multiplied even more 

><sup> 21 </sup> so that, just as sin reigned in death, so also grace will reign through righteousness, resulting in eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

What is response to this this fullness of life?

If we believe and trust in Christ and instantly, he gives us his righteousness and life eternal, how can we respond?

### Preach the good news: receive the good news

>1 Corinthians 15:1-11 (CSB) Now I want to make clear for you, brothers and sisters, the gospel I preached to you, which you received

### Preach the good news: take a stand in the good news by which you are being saved

>on which you have taken your stand 2 and by which you are being saved, if you hold to the message I preached to you—unless you believed in vain.

### Preach the good news: that Christ came into the world to save sinners

>3 For I passed on to you as most important what I also received: that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, 4 that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures, 5 and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the Twelve. 6 Then he appeared to over five hundred brothers and sisters at one time; most of them are still alive, but some have fallen asleep. 7 Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles. 8 Last of all, as to one born at the wrong time, he also appeared to me.

### Preach the good news: You and I are never too far from the infinite arm of the Almighty God who saves!

>For I am the least of the apostles, not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.

### Preach the good news: This is the grace of where you are at now--what do you want to do?

>10 But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I worked harder than any of them, yet not I, but the grace of God that was with me.

### Preach the good news: in whatever you do, do so that others might believe and trust the Lord Jesus Christ

>11 Whether, then, it is I or they, so we proclaim and so you have believed.

### Preach the good news: Christ is our life

Christ is not simple Lord over sin and death and demons and hell. That is only one little part of the good news.

Christ is Lord over  life. Let's hear what Christ says about it.

>John 11:20-27 (CSB) As soon as Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went to meet him, but Mary remained seated in the house. 21 Then Martha said to Jesus, “Lord, if you had been here, my brother wouldn’t have died. 22 Yet even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you.”
>
>23 “Your brother will rise again,” Jesus told her.
>
>24 Martha said to him, “I know that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day.”
>
>25 Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me, even if he dies, will live. 26 Everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this?”
>
>27 “Yes, Lord,” she told him, “I believe you are the Messiah, the Son of God, who comes into the world.”

## Pray

<div style="font-variant: small-caps;">
My Only Lord
</div>
&nbsp;

I believe in you. Save me!

Amen.

## Media

Today's episode at [The Study](http://study.theologic.us/podcast/study-romans-51221-god-reigns-not-us)

[Live on Twitch!](http://twitch.theologic.us) || [YouTube](http://youtube.theologic.us) || [Discord](http://discord.theologic.us) || [Apple](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-study/id1557102127) || [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/0Xs5qsNvWePyRqcmtOTPkR)
