---
title: "📺 Gospel Meditations: 2 Timothy 3:1-17 Set Apart By God"
author: Joseph Louthan
publishDate: 2021-07-28T06:00:00-06:00
url: /gospel-meditations/2021-07-28-2nd-timothy/
categories:
  - "Gospel Meditations"
tags:
  - "2 Timothy"
series:
  - "Gospel Meditations: Pastorals"
css: "home-devos"
showtoc: true
draft: false
---
## The Introduction

## The Text

>2 Timothy 3:1–17 (CSB)  
><sup> 1 </sup> But know this: Hard times will come in the last days. 

><sup> 2 </sup> For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, boastful, proud, demeaning, disobedient to parents, ungrateful, unholy, 

><sup> 3 </sup> unloving, irreconcilable, slanderers, without self-control, brutal, without love for what is good, 

><sup> 4 </sup> traitors, reckless, conceited, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, 

><sup> 5 </sup> holding to the form of godliness but denying its power. Avoid these people. 

><sup> 6 </sup> For among them are those who worm their way into households and deceive gullible women overwhelmed by sins and led astray by a variety of passions, 

><sup> 7 </sup> always learning and never able to come to a knowledge of the truth. 

><sup> 8 </sup> Just as Jannes and Jambres resisted Moses, so these also resist the truth. They are men who are corrupt in mind and worthless in regard to the faith. 

><sup> 9 </sup> But they will not make further progress, for their foolishness will be clear to all, as was the foolishness of Jannes and Jambres. 

><sup> 10 </sup> But you have followed my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, patience, love, and endurance, 

><sup> 11 </sup> along with the persecutions and sufferings that came to me in Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra. What persecutions I endured—and yet the Lord rescued me from them all. 

><sup> 12 </sup> In fact, all who want to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. 

><sup> 13 </sup> Evil people and impostors will become worse, deceiving and being deceived. 

><sup> 14 </sup> But as for you, continue in what you have learned and firmly believed. You know those who taught you, 

><sup> 15 </sup> and you know that from infancy you have known the sacred Scriptures, which are able to give you wisdom for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. 

><sup> 16 </sup> All Scripture is inspired by God and is profitable for teaching, for rebuking, for correcting, for training in righteousness, 

><sup> 17 </sup> so that the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work.

## The Meditation


## The Gospel

## The Prayer

<div style="font-variant: small-caps;">

</div>
&nbsp;

```text

```

## The Media

Today's episode at [The Study](http://study.theologic.us/podcast/)

[Live on Twitch!](http://twitch.theologic.us) || [YouTube](http://youtube.theologic.us) || [Discord](http://discord.theologic.us) || [Apple](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-study/id1557102127) || [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/0Xs5qsNvWePyRqcmtOTPkR)
