---
title: "Gospel Meditations: 1 Timothy 5:3-16 Christ our Bridegroom"
author: Joseph Louthan
publishDate: 2021-04-28T06:00:00-06:00
url: /gospel-meditations/2021-04-28-gospel-meditations-1-timothy/
categories:
  - "Gospel Meditations"
tags:
  - "1 Timothy"
series:
  - "Gospel Meditations: Pastorals"
css: "prayers"
showtoc: true
draft: false
---

## The Text

>1 Timothy 5:3-16 (CSB) Support widows who are genuinely in need. But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them learn to practice godliness toward their own family first and to repay their parents, for this pleases God. The widow who is truly in need and left all alone has put her hope in God and continues night and day in her petitions and prayers; however, she who is self-indulgent is dead even while she lives. Command this also, so that they will be above reproach. But if anyone does not provide for his own family, especially for his own household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.
>
>No widow is to be enrolled on the list for support unless she is at least sixty years old, has been the wife of one husband, and is well known for good works—that is, if she has brought up children, shown hospitality, washed the saints’ feet, helped the afflicted, and devoted herself to every good work. But refuse to enroll younger widows, for when they are drawn away from Christ by desire, they want to marry and will therefore receive condemnation because they have renounced their original pledge. At the same time, they also learn to be idle, going from house to house; they are not only idle, but are also gossips and busybodies, saying things they shouldn’t say. Therefore, I want younger women to marry, have children, manage their households, and give the adversary no opportunity to accuse us. For some have already turned away to follow Satan. If any believing woman has widows in her family, let her help them. Let the church not be burdened, so that it can help widows in genuine need.

## The Meditation

>Deuteronomy 10:17-22 (CSB) For the LORD your God is the God of gods and Lord of lords, the great, mighty, and awe-inspiring God, showing no partiality and taking no bribe. He executes justice for the fatherless and the widow, and loves the resident alien, giving him food and clothing. You are also to love the resident alien, since you were resident aliens in the land of Egypt. You are to fear the LORD your God and worship him. Remain faithful to him and take oaths in his name. He is your praise and he is your God, who has done for you these great and awe-inspiring works your eyes have seen. Your ancestors went down to Egypt, seventy people in all, and now the LORD your God has made you numerous, like the stars of the sky.

And

>Luke 18:1-8 (CSB) Now he told them a parable on the need for them to pray always and not give up. “There was a judge in a certain town who didn’t fear God or respect people. And a widow in that town kept coming to him, saying, ‘Give me justice against my adversary.’
>
>“For a while he was unwilling, but later he said to himself, ‘Even though I don’t fear God or respect people, yet because this widow keeps pestering me, I will give her justice, so that she doesn’t wear me out by her persistent coming.’”
>
>Then the Lord said, “Listen to what the unjust judge says. Will not God grant justice to his elect who cry out to him day and night? Will he delay helping them? I tell you that he will swiftly grant them justice. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth?”

It is not hard to see the heart of God for the widow. Because spiritually, we all widows. Without God, we have all lost our spouses. We are very vulnerable, weak, and defenseless.

But God, in his sovereign grace, sends his Son for His Bride. He is the Bridegroom that redeems the widow, restores, and makes her new in splendor and glory.

## The Gospel

## The Prayer

<div style="font-variant: small-caps;">
Our Christ
</div>

```text
There is a day when you will come back and complete the work you have started.

Come quickly, Lord.

Amen.
```
