---
title: "📺 Gospel Meditations: 2 Timothy 2:3-19 Life by God"
author: Joseph Louthan
publishDate: 2021-07-07T06:00:00-06:00
url: /gospel-meditations/2021-07-07-2nd-timothy/
categories:
  - "Gospel Meditations"
tags:
  - "2 Timothy"
series:
  - "Gospel Meditations: Pastorals"
css: "home-devos"
showtoc: true
draft: true
---
## The Introduction

## The Text

>2 Timothy 2:3–19 (CSB)  
><sup> 3 </sup> Share in suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. 

><sup> 4 </sup> No one serving as a soldier gets entangled in the concerns of civilian life; he seeks to please the commanding officer. 

><sup> 5 </sup> Also, if anyone competes as an athlete, he is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules. 

><sup> 6 </sup> The hardworking farmer ought to be the first to get a share of the crops. 

><sup> 7 </sup> Consider what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything. 

><sup> 8 </sup> Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead and descended from David, according to my gospel, 

><sup> 9 </sup> for which I suffer to the point of being bound like a criminal. But the word of God is not bound. 

><sup> 10 </sup> This is why I endure all things for the elect: so that they also may obtain salvation, which is in Christ Jesus, with eternal glory. 

><sup> 11 </sup> This saying is trustworthy: For if we died with him, we will also live with him; 

><sup> 12 </sup> if we endure, we will also reign with him; if we deny him, he will also deny us; 

><sup> 13 </sup> if we are faithless, he remains faithful, for he cannot deny himself. 

><sup> 14 </sup> Remind them of these things, and charge them before God not to fight about words. This is useless and leads to the ruin of those who listen. 

><sup> 15 </sup> Be diligent to present yourself to God as one approved, a worker who doesn’t need to be ashamed, correctly teaching the word of truth. 

><sup> 16 </sup> Avoid irreverent and empty speech, since those who engage in it will produce even more godlessness, 

><sup> 17 </sup> and their teaching will spread like gangrene. Hymenaeus and Philetus are among them. 

><sup> 18 </sup> They have departed from the truth, saying that the resurrection has already taken place, and are ruining the faith of some. 

><sup> 19 </sup> Nevertheless, God’s solid foundation stands firm, bearing this inscription: The Lord knows those who are his, and let everyone who calls on the name of the Lord turn away from wickedness.

## The Meditation

## The Gospel

## The Prayer

<div style="font-variant: small-caps;">

</div>
&nbsp;

```text

```

## Media

Today's episode at [The Study](http://study.theologic.us/podcast/)

[Live on Twitch!](http://twitch.theologic.us) || [YouTube](http://youtube.theologic.us) || [Discord](http://discord.theologic.us) || [Apple](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-study/id1557102127) || [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/0Xs5qsNvWePyRqcmtOTPkR)
