---
title: "Study: Genesis 3:1-14	The Gospel Needed"
author: Joseph Louthan
publishDate: 2021-07-29T06:00:00-06:00
url: /bible-study/2021-07-29-study-genesis/
categories:
  - Bible Study
tags:
  - "Genesis"
series:
  - "Bible Study: Genesis"
tocopen: true
css: "home-devos"
draft: false
---
## The Text

>Genesis 3:1-14 (CSB) Now the serpent was the most cunning of all the wild animals that the LORD God had made. He said to the woman, “Did God really say, ‘You can’t eat from any tree in the garden’?”
>
>The woman said to the serpent, “We may eat the fruit from the trees in the garden. But about the fruit of the tree in the middle of the garden, God said, ‘You must not eat it or touch it, or you will die.’”
>
>“No! You will certainly not die,” the serpent said to the woman. “In fact, God knows that when you eat it your eyes will be opened and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.” The woman saw that the tree was good for food and delightful to look at, and that it was desirable for obtaining wisdom. So she took some of its fruit and ate it; she also gave some to her husband, who was with her, and he ate it. Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew they were naked; so they sewed fig leaves together and made coverings for themselves.
>
>Then the man and his wife heard the sound of the LORD God walking in the garden at the time of the evening breeze, and they hid from the LORD God among the trees of the garden. So the LORD God called out to the man and said to him, “Where are you?”
>
>And he said, “I heard you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked, so I hid.”
>
>Then he asked, “Who told you that you were naked? Did you eat from the tree that I commanded you not to eat from?”
>
>The man replied, “The woman you gave to be with me—she gave me some fruit from the tree, and I ate.”
>
>So the LORD God asked the woman, “What have you done?”
>
>And the woman said, “The serpent deceived me, and I ate.”
>
>So the LORD God said to the serpent:  
>Because you have done this,  
>you are cursed more than any livestock  
>and more than any wild animal.  
>You will move on your belly  
>and eat dust all the days of your life.

## The Support

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

`Where do you see God in the text? What does the text say about God?`

## God




## The Gospel

## Our Responsibility

## Pray

<div style="font-variant: small-caps;">

</div>
&nbsp;


