---
title: "📺 Study: Genesis 1:14-19 Our Forever Light"
author: Joseph Louthan
publishDate: 2021-06-24T06:00:00-06:00
url: /bible-study/2021-06-24-study-genesis/
categories:
  - Bible Study
tags:
  - "Genesis"
series:
  - "Bible Study: Genesis"
tocopen: true
css: "home-devos"
draft: false
---
## The Introduction

## The Text

>Genesis 1:14-19 (CSB) Then God said, “Let there be lights in the expanse of the sky to separate the day from the night. They will serve as signs for seasons and for days and years. They will be lights in the expanse of the sky to provide light on the earth.” And it was so. God made the two great lights—the greater light to rule over the day and the lesser light to rule over the night—as well as the stars. God placed them in the expanse of the sky to provide light on the earth, to rule the day and the night, and to separate light from darkness. And God saw that it was good. Evening came and then morning: the fourth day.

## The Support

>John 8:12 (CSB) Jesus spoke to them again: “I am the light of the world. Anyone who follows me will never walk in the darkness but will have the light of life.”

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

**Where do you see God in the text? What does the text say about God?**

## God

### From the beginning, when God made day and night, he was always the light and life of men

>John 1:1-5 (CSB) In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. All things were created through him, and apart from him not one thing was created that has been created. In him was life, and that life was the light of men. That light shines in the darkness, and yet the darkness did not overcome it.

### The whole of Scripture testifies that God is only only life and light

>John 1:6-9 (CSB) There was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness to testify about the light, so that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but he came to testify about the light. The true light that gives light to everyone was coming into the world.

>Matthew 23:29-32 (CSB) “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! You build the tombs of the prophets and decorate the graves of the righteous, and you say, ‘If we had lived in the days of our ancestors, we wouldn’t have taken part with them in shedding the prophets’ blood.’ So you testify against yourselves that you are descendants of those who murdered the prophets. Fill up, then, the measure of your ancestors’ sins!

>Matthew 23:33-36 (CSB) “Snakes! Brood of vipers! How can you escape being condemned to hell? This is why I am sending you prophets, sages, and scribes. Some of them you will kill and crucify, and some of them you will flog in your synagogues and pursue from town to town. So all the righteous blood shed on the earth will be charged to you, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, son of Berechiah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar. Truly I tell you, all these things will come on this generation.

## The Gospel

### You are not born into this

>Romans 3:23 (CSB) For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God;

>Romans 5:12 (CSB) Therefore, just as sin entered the world through one man, and death through sin, in this way death spread to all people, because all sinned.

### Some have rejected God

>John 1:10-11 (CSB) He was in the world, and the world was created through him, and yet the world did not recognize him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him.

### This is the gospel command: receive Jesus as your life!

>John 1:12-13 (CSB) But to all who did receive him, he gave them the right to be children of God, to those who believe in his name, who were born, not of natural descent, or of the will of the flesh, or of the will of man, but of God.

>John 6:68-69 (CSB) Simon Peter answered, “Lord, to whom will we go? You have the words of eternal life. We have come to believe and know that you are the Holy One of God.”

### You want Jesus? You will have to be born again

>John 3:3-5 (CSB) Jesus replied, “Truly I tell you, unless someone is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.”

>“How can anyone be born when he is old?” Nicodemus asked him. “Can he enter his mother’s womb a second time and be born?”

>Jesus answered, “Truly I tell you, unless someone is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.

>1 John 5:1 (CSB) Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God, and everyone who loves the Father also loves the one born of him.

### That means your old life is dead

It is all of Romans 6.
 
* 1 - You don't get to sin all the more just because of grace
* 2 - We are dead to sin
* 3 - When we are baptized, we are baptized unto his death
* 4 - because Christ has risen from death, we get to walk in the newness of life
* 5 - because we are united with him in death, we are united in him in life

### You are a new creation

>2 Corinthians 5:17 (CSB) Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation; the old has passed away, and see, the new has come!

>Luke 13:1-5 (CSB) At that time, some people came and reported to him about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices. And he responded to them, “Do you think that these Galileans were more sinful than all the other Galileans because they suffered these things? No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you will all perish as well. Or those eighteen that the tower in Siloam fell on and killed—do you think they were more sinful than all the other people who live in Jerusalem? No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you will all perish as well.”

## Our Responsibility

### Repent of sin

>John 8:2-12 (CSB) At dawn he went to the temple again, and all the people were coming to him. He sat down and began to teach them.
>
>Then the scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman caught in adultery, making her stand in the center. “Teacher,” they said to him, “this woman was caught in the act of committing adultery. In the law Moses commanded us to stone such women. So what do you say?” They asked this to trap him, in order that they might have evidence to accuse him.
>
>Jesus stooped down and started writing on the ground with his finger. When they persisted in questioning him, he stood up and said to them, “The one without sin among you should be the first to throw a stone at her.” Then he stooped down again and continued writing on the ground. When they heard this, they left one by one, starting with the older men. Only he was left, with the woman in the center. When Jesus stood up, he said to her, “Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you?”
>
>“No one, Lord,” she answered.
>
>“Neither do I condemn you,” said Jesus. “Go, and from now on do not sin anymore.”

### Trust in Christ--he alone is life

>Jesus spoke to them again: “I am the light of the world. Anyone who follows me will never walk in the darkness but will have the light of life.”

## Pray

<div style="font-variant: small-caps;">
My Lord
</div>
&nbsp;

Give us the gift of repentance  
  and write your word upon on our hearts  
  so that we might not sin against you  
  you are my Rock and Redeemer forever.

Amen.

## Media

Today's episode at [The Study](http://study.theologic.us/podcast/study-genesis-114-19-our-forever-light/)

\[[Apple](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-study/id1557102127)\]\[[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/0Xs5qsNvWePyRqcmtOTPkR)\]\[[YouTube](http://youtube.theologic.us)\]\[[Twitch](http://twitch.theologic.us)\]\[[Discord](http://discord.theologic.us)\]
