---
title: "📺 Study: Genesis 9:8-17 The Gospel Certainty: The Redemption of God"
author: Joseph Louthan
publishDate: 2021-10-21T06:00:00-06:00
url: /bible-study/2021-10-21-study-genesis/
categories:
  - Bible Study
tags:
  - "Genesis"
series:
  - "Bible Study: Genesis"
tocopen: true
css: "home-devos"
draft: true
---
## The Introduction

It is one thing to wrap our minds around the continuous work of God in redemption. It is whole other thing to sit and think and meditate on the permenance of God's work in redemption.

But what is redemption?

## The Text

>Genesis 9:8–17 (CSB)  
><sup> 8 </sup> Then God said to Noah and his sons with him, 

><sup> 9 </sup> “Understand that I am establishing my covenant with you and your descendants after you, 

><sup> 10 </sup> and with every living creature that is with you—birds, livestock, and all wildlife of the earth that are with you—all the animals of the earth that came out of the ark. 

><sup> 11 </sup> I establish my covenant with you that never again will every creature be wiped out by floodwaters; there will never again be a flood to destroy the earth.” 

><sup> 12 </sup> And God said, “This is the sign of the covenant I am making between me and you and every living creature with you, a covenant for all future generations: 

><sup> 13 </sup> I have placed my bow in the clouds, and it will be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth. 

><sup> 14 </sup> Whenever I form clouds over the earth and the bow appears in the clouds, 

><sup> 15 </sup> I will remember my covenant between me and you and all the living creatures: water will never again become a flood to destroy every creature. 

><sup> 16 </sup> The bow will be in the clouds, and I will look at it and remember the permanent covenant between God and all the living creatures on earth.” 

><sup> 17 </sup> God said to Noah, “This is the sign of the covenant that I have established between me and every creature on earth.”

## The Support

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

**Where do you see God in the text? What does the text say about God?**

## God

## The Gospel

## Our Responsibility

## The Prayer

<div style="font-variant: small-caps;">

</div>
&nbsp;

## The Media

Today's episode at [The Study](http://study.theologic.us/podcast/genesis-98-17-the-gospel-certainty-the-redemption-of-god)

[Live on Twitch!](http://twitch.theologic.us) || [YouTube](http://youtube.theologic.us) || [Discord](http://discord.theologic.us) || [Apple](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-study/id1557102127) || [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/0Xs5qsNvWePyRqcmtOTPkR)
