---
title: 'Kid Devotions: Luke 10-11:13 What is Christ Inviting Us To Do?'
author: Joseph Louthan
publishDate: 2021-02-04T06:00:00-06:00
url: /kid-devotions/2021-02-04-kid-devotions-luke/
categories:
  - Devotions
tags:
  - Luke
series:
  - 'Kid Devotions: Luke'
css: "prayers"
draft: false
---

## 

### Westminster Larger Catechism

Q. 30. Doth God leave all mankind to perish in the estate of sin and misery?  
A. God doth not leave all men to perish in the estate of sin and misery, into which they fell by the breach of the first covenant, commonly called the covenant of works; but of his mere love and mercy delivereth his elect out of it, and bringeth them into an estate of salvation by the second covenant, commonly called the covenant of grace.


### Christ Invites Us to Harvest

Luke 10:1–12 (CSB) After this, the Lord appointed seventy-two others, and he sent them ahead of him in pairs to every town and place where he himself was about to go. He told them, “The harvest is abundant, but the workers are few. Therefore, pray to the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest. Now go; I’m sending you out like lambs among wolves. Don’t carry a money-bag, traveling bag, or sandals; don’t greet anyone along the road. Whatever house you enter, first say, ‘Peace to this household.’ If a person of peace is there, your peace will rest on him; but if not, it will return to you. Remain in the same house, eating and drinking what they offer, for the worker is worthy of his wages. Don’t move from house to house. When you enter any town, and they welcome you, eat the things set before you. Heal the sick who are there, and tell them, ‘The kingdom of God has come near you.’ When you enter any town, and they don’t welcome you, go out into its streets and say, ‘We are wiping off even the dust of your town that clings to our feet as a witness against you. Know this for certain: The kingdom of God has come near.’ I tell you, on that day it will be more tolerable for Sodom than for that town.

```text
If you talk about God with people, will everybody agree with you? Will everybody choose God?
```

---

## 

### Westminster Larger Catechism

Q. 31. With whom was the covenant of grace made?  
A. The covenant of grace was made with Christ as the second Adam, and in him with all the elect as his seed.

### Christ Invites Us to Be Rejected

Luke 10:13–16 (CSB) “Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the miracles that were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. But it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment than for you. And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? No, you will go down to Hades. Whoever listens to you listens to me. Whoever rejects you rejects me. And whoever rejects me rejects the one who sent me.”

```text
Why is the preaching of the gospel so powerful?
```

---

## 

### Westminster Larger Catechism

Q. 32. How is the grace of God manifested in the second covenant?  
A. The grace of God is manifested in the second covenant, in that he freely provideth and offereth to sinners a Mediator, and life and salvation by him; and requiring faith as the condition to interest them in him, promiseth and giveth his Holy Spirit to all his elect, to work in them that faith, with all other saving graces; and to enable them unto all holy obedience, as the evidence of the truth of their faith and thankfulness to God, and as the way which he hath appointed them to salvation.

### Christ Invites Us to Live

Luke 10:17–20 (CSB) The seventy-two returned with joy, saying, “Lord, even the demons submit to us in your name.”

He said to them, “I watched Satan fall from heaven like lightning. Look, I have given you the authority to trample on snakes and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy; nothing at all will harm you. However, don’t rejoice that the spirits submit to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven.”

```text
Why has God called us not to gain power in our time here?

Name some other things that the world and Satan has tempted you to get more of? What are the things that they say will make you happy?

What does God say?
```

---

## 

### Westminster Larger Catechism

Q. 33. Was the covenant of grace always administered after one and the same manner?  
A. The covenant of grace was not always administered after the same manner, but the administrations of it under the Old Testament were different from those under the New.

### Christ Invites Us to See

Luke 10:21–24 (CSB) At that time he rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and said, “I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and intelligent and revealed them to infants. Yes, Father, because this was your good pleasure. All things have been entrusted to me by my Father. No one knows who the Son is except the Father, and who the Father is except the Son, and anyone to whom the Son desires to reveal him.”

Then turning to his disciples he said privately, “Blessed are the eyes that see the things you see! For I tell you that many prophets and kings wanted to see the things you see but didn’t see them; to hear the things you hear but didn’t hear them.”

```text
What has God invited us to see?

Can unbelievers see these same things as well?

How can an unbeliever see the kingdom of God?
```

---

## 

### Westminster Larger Catechism

Q. 34. How was the covenant of grace administered under the Old Testament?  
A. The covenant of grace was administered under the Old Testament, by promises, prophecies, sacrifices, circumcision, the passover, and other types and ordinances, which did all fore-signify Christ then to come, and were for that time sufficient to build up the elect in faith in the promised Messiah, by whom they then had full remission of sin, and eternal salvation.

### Christ Invites Us to Separate

Luke 10:25–37 (CSB) Then an expert in the law stood up to test him, saying, “Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?”

“What is written in the law?” he asked him. “How do you read it?”

He answered, “Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind,” and “your neighbor as yourself.”

“You’ve answered correctly,” he told him. “Do this and you will live.”

But wanting to justify himself, he asked Jesus, “And who is my neighbor?”

Jesus took up the question and said, “A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell into the hands of robbers. They stripped him, beat him up, and fled, leaving him half dead. A priest happened to be going down that road. When he saw him, he passed by on the other side. In the same way, a Levite, when he arrived at the place and saw him, passed by on the other side. But a Samaritan on his journey came up to him, and when he saw the man, he had compassion. He went over to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on olive oil and wine. Then he put him on his own animal, brought him to an inn, and took care of him. The next day he took out two denarii, gave them to the innkeeper, and said, ‘Take care of him. When I come back I’ll reimburse you for whatever extra you spend.’

“Which of these three do you think proved to be a neighbor to the man who fell into the hands of the robbers?”

“The one who showed mercy to him,” he said.

Then Jesus told him, “Go and do the same.”

```text
What does it mean, 'to justify himself'?

Who is our neighbor?

Reading Ephesians 6:12. Can anybody be our enemy? Why or why not?
```

---

## 

### Westminster Larger Catechism

Q. 35. How is the covenant of grace administered under the New Testament?  
A. Under the New Testament, when Christ the substance was exhibited, the same covenant of grace was and still is to be administered in the preaching of the Word, and the administration of the sacraments of Baptism and the Lord's Supper; in which grace and salvation are held forth in more fulness, evidence, and efficacy, to all nations.

### Christ Invites Us to Be With God

Luke 10:38–42 (CSB) While they were traveling, he entered a village, and a woman named Martha welcomed him into her home. She had a sister named Mary, who also sat at the Lord’s feet and was listening to what he said. But Martha was distracted by her many tasks, and she came up and asked, “Lord, don’t you care that my sister has left me to serve alone? So tell her to give me a hand.”

The Lord answered her, “Martha, Martha, you are worried and upset about many things, but one thing is necessary. Mary has made the right choice, and it will not be taken away from her.”

```text
Can we do enough to get into the kingdom of God?

Can we do enough to be saved by God?

How can we be saved?
```

---

## 

### Westminster Larger Catechism

Q. 36. Who is the Mediator of the covenant of grace?  
A. The only Mediator of the covenant of grace is the Lord Jesus Christ, who, being the eternal Son of God, of one substance and equal with the Father, in the fulness of time became man, and so was and continues to be God and man, in two entire distinct natures, and one person, forever.

### Christ Invites Us to Talk to God

>Luke 11:1–4 (CSB) He was praying in a certain place, and when he finished, one of his disciples said to him, “Lord, teach us to pray, just as John also taught his disciples.”  He said to them, “Whenever you pray, say, Father, your name be honored as holy. Your kingdom come.  Give us each day our daily bread.  And forgive us our sins, for we ourselves also forgive everyone in debt to us. And do not bring us into temptation.”

```text
1. Read Isaiah 6:1-4 and Revelation 4:1-11. In what ways do we worship God like the angels?

2. According to how Jesus taught us to pray, how are we different from the angels in our worship to God?
```

---

## 

### Westminster Larger Catechism

Q. 37. How did Christ, being the Son of God, become man?  
A. Christ the Son of God became man, by taking to himself a true body, and a reasonable soul, being conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost in the womb of the virgin Mary, of her substance, and born of her, yet without sin.

### Christ Invites Us to Ask For God

>Luke 11:5–13 (CSB) He also said to them, “Suppose one of you has a friend and goes to him at midnight and says to him, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves of bread,  because a friend of mine on a journey has come to me, and I don’t have anything to offer him.’  Then he will answer from inside and say, ‘Don’t bother me! The door is already locked, and my children and I have gone to bed. I can’t get up to give you anything.’  I tell you, even though he won’t get up and give him anything because he is his friend, yet because of his friend’s shameless boldness, he will get up and give him as much as he needs.
>
>“So I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and the door will be opened to you.  For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks, the door will be opened.  What father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will give him a snake instead of a fish?  Or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion?  If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will the heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him?”

```text
What happens when you go to God, sit with God, pray to God, and ask for God, what are you getting in return?
```
