---
title: 'Kid Devotions: Luke 13:31-15:32 What Did Christ Come To Do'
author: Joseph Louthan
publishDate: 2021-03-04T00:00:00-05:00
categories:
  - Devotions
tags:
  - Luke
series:
  - 'Kid Devotions: Luke'
css: "prayers"
draft: false
---

## 

### Westminster Larger Catechism

Q.

### Christ Came To Complete His Ministry

>Luke 13:31-33 (CSB) At that time some Pharisees came and told him, “Go, get out of here. Herod wants to kill you.”
>
>He said to them, “Go tell that fox, ‘Look, I’m driving out demons and performing healings today and tomorrow, and on the third day I will complete my work.’ Yet it is necessary that I travel today, tomorrow, and the next day, because it is not possible for a prophet to perish outside of Jerusalem.

>Matthew 1:21 (CSB) She will give birth to a son, and you are to name him Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins.”

```text
1. Some of the Pharisees said to him, "Go, get out of here. Herod is trying to kill you." Were they really trying to help Christ?

2. Could Christ been scared? What if he gave into that fear and left town?

3. Christ said he had to, "drive out demons and perform healings." Was that all he came to do?

3. What was this "third day" Christ spoke of?

4. What do you think Christ meant by: "not possible for a prophet to perish outside of Jerusalem"?
```

---
### Christ Came To Prophesy

>Luke 13:34-35 (CSB) “Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to her. How often I wanted to gather your children together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, but you were not willing! See, your house is abandoned to you. I tell you, you will not see me until the time comes when you say, ‘Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord’!”

>Luke 11:47-51 (CSB) “Woe to you! You build tombs for the prophets, and your fathers killed them. Therefore, you are witnesses that you approve the deeds of your fathers, for they killed them, and you build their monuments. Because of this, the wisdom of God said, ‘I will send them prophets and apostles, and some of them they will kill and persecute,’ so that this generation may be held responsible for the blood of all the prophets shed since the foundation of the world — from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zechariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary.
>
>“Yes, I tell you, this generation will be held responsible.

>Matthew 21:33-46 (CSB) “Listen to another parable: There was a landowner, who planted a vineyard, put a fence around it, dug a winepress in it, and built a watchtower. He leased it to tenant farmers and went away. When the time came to harvest fruit, he sent his servants to the farmers to collect his fruit. The farmers took his servants, beat one, killed another, and stoned a third. Again, he sent other servants, more than the first group, and they did the same to them. Finally, he sent his son to them. ‘They will respect my son,’ he said.  
>
>“But when the tenant farmers saw the son, they said to each other, ‘This is the heir. Come, let’s kill him and take his inheritance.’ So they seized him, threw him out of the vineyard, and killed him. Therefore, when the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those farmers?”  
>
>“He will completely destroy those terrible men,” they told him, “and lease his vineyard to other farmers who will give him his fruit at the harvest.”  
>
>Jesus said to them, “Have you never read in the Scriptures:  
>The stone that the builders rejected  
>has become the cornerstone.  
>This is what the Lord has done  
>and it is wonderful in our eyes?  
>
>Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing its fruit. Whoever falls on this stone will be broken to pieces; but on whomever it falls, it will shatter him.”  
>When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, they knew he was speaking about them. Although they were looking for a way to arrest him, they feared the crowds, because the people regarded him as a prophet.

```text
1. Why do people hate people for speaking the words of God?

2. Read Romans 10:1-17. How are we to be saved?
```

---
### Christ Came to Fulfill the Law of God

>Luke 14:1-6 (CSB) One Sabbath, when he went in to eat at the house of one of the leading Pharisees, they were watching him closely. There in front of him was a man whose body was swollen with fluid. In response, Jesus asked the law experts and the Pharisees, “Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath or not?” But they kept silent. He took the man, healed him, and sent him away. And to them, he said, “Which of you whose son or ox falls into a well, will not immediately pull him out on the Sabbath day?” They could find no answer to these things.

>Matthew 5:17-20 (CSB) “Don’t think that I came to abolish the Law or the Prophets. I did not come to abolish but to fulfill. For truly I tell you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or one stroke of a letter will pass away from the law until all things are accomplished. Therefore, whoever breaks one of the least of these commands and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does and teaches these commands will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I tell you, unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never get into the kingdom of heaven.

>Romans 8:1-4 (CSB) Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those in Christ Jesus, because the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do since it was weakened by the flesh, God did. He condemned sin in the flesh by sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh as a sin offering, in order that the law’s requirement would be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.

>Luke 24:25-27 (CSB) He said to them, “How foolish you are, and how slow to believe all that the prophets have spoken! Wasn’t it necessary for the Messiah to suffer these things and enter into his glory?” Then beginning with Moses and all the Prophets, he interpreted for them the things concerning himself in all the Scriptures.

>> Psalms 19 (CSB) The heavens declare the glory of God,  
>and the expanse proclaims the work of his hands.  
>Day after day they pour out speech;  
>night after night they communicate knowledge.  
>There is no speech; there are no words;  
>their voice is not heard.  
>Their message has gone out to the whole earth,  
>and their words to the ends of the world.  
>In the heavens he has pitched a tent for the sun.  
>It is like a bridegroom coming from his home;  
>it rejoices like an athlete running a course.  
>It rises from one end of the heavens  
>and circles to their other end;  
>nothing is hidden from its heat.  
>The instruction of the LORD is perfect,  
>renewing one’s life;  
>the testimony of the LORD is trustworthy,  
>making the inexperienced wise.  
>The precepts of the LORD are right,  
>making the heart glad;  
>the command of the LORD is radiant,  
>making the eyes light up.  
>The fear of the LORD is pure,  
>enduring forever;  
>the ordinances of the LORD are reliable  
>and altogether righteous.  
>They are more desirable than gold—  
>than an abundance of pure gold;  
>and sweeter than honey  
>dripping from a honeycomb.  
>In addition, your servant is warned by them,  
>and in keeping them there is an abundant reward.  
>Who perceives his unintentional sins?  
>Cleanse me from my hidden faults.  
>Moreover, keep your servant from willful sins;  
>do not let them rule me.  
>Then I will be blameless  
>and cleansed from blatant rebellion.  
>May the words of my mouth  
>and the meditation of my heart  
>be acceptable to you,  
>LORD, my rock and my Redeemer.

```text
When Christ teaches religious teachers about God, what are some of their usual responses? Why do you think they couldn't respond this time?
```

---
### Christ Came in Humility

>Luke 14:7-14 (CSB) He told a parable to those who were invited, when he noticed how they would choose the best places for themselves: “When you are invited by someone to a wedding banquet, don’t sit in the place of honor, because a more distinguished person than you may have been invited by your host. The one who invited both of you may come and say to you, ‘Give your place to this man,’ and then in humiliation, you will proceed to take the lowest place.
>
>“But when you are invited, go and sit in the lowest place, so that when the one who invited you comes, he will say to you, ‘Friend, move up higher.’ You will then be honored in the presence of all the other guests. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and the one who humbles himself will be exalted.”
>
>He also said to the one who had invited him, “When you give a lunch or a dinner, don’t invite your friends, your brothers or sisters, your relatives, or your rich neighbors, because they might invite you back, and you would be repaid. On the contrary, when you host a banquet, invite those who are poor, maimed, lame, or blind. And you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you; for you will be repaid at the resurrection of the righteous.”

>Isaiah 9:6-7 (CSB)
>For a child will be born for us,  
>a son will be given to us,  
>and the government will be on his shoulders.  
>He will be named  
>Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God,  
>Eternal Father, Prince of Peace.  
>The dominion will be vast,  
>and its prosperity will never end.  
>He will reign on the throne of David  
>and over his kingdom,  
>to establish and sustain it  
>with justice and righteousness from now on and forever.  
>The zeal of the LORD of Armies will accomplish this.  

>Philippians 2:5-11 (CSB)
>Adopt the same attitude as that of Christ Jesus,  
>who, existing in the form of God,  
>did not consider equality with God  
>as something to be exploited.  
>Instead he emptied himself  
>by assuming the form of a servant,  
>taking on the likeness of humanity.  
>And when he had come as a man,  
>he humbled himself by becoming obedient  
>to the point of death—  
>even to death on a cross.  
>For this reason God highly exalted him  
>and gave him the name  
>that is above every name,  
>so that at the name of Jesus  
>every knee will bow—  
>in heaven and on earth  
>and under the earth—  
>and every tongue will confess  
>that Jesus Christ is Lord,  
>to the glory of God the Father.

>Hebrews 4:15 (CSB) For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in every way as we are, yet without sin.

>2 Corinthians 5:21 (CSB) He made the one who did not know sin to be sin for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.

```text
1. Why was Christ humble?

2. What is pride in the sight of God?

3. Why should we be humble in the sight of God?
```

---
### Christ Came to Draw Everybody to Himself

>Luke 14:15-24 (CSB) When one of those who reclined at the table with him heard these things, he said to him, “Blessed is the one who will eat bread in the kingdom of God!”  
>
>Then he told him, “A man was giving a large banquet and invited many. At the time of the banquet, he sent his servant to tell those who were invited, ‘Come, because everything is now ready.’  
>
>“But without exception they all began to make excuses. The first one said to him, ‘I have bought a field, and I must go out and see it. I ask you to excuse me.’  
>
>“Another said, ‘I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I’m going to try them out. I ask you to excuse me.’  
>“And another said, ‘I just got married, and therefore I’m unable to come.’  
>
>“So the servant came back and reported these things to his master. Then in anger, the master of the house told his servant, ‘Go out quickly into the streets and alleys of the city, and bring in here the poor, maimed, blind, and lame.’  
>
>“‘Master,’ the servant said, ‘what you ordered has been done, and there’s still room.’  
>
>“Then the master told the servant, ‘Go out into the highways and hedges and make them come in, so that my house may be filled. For I tell you, not one of those people who were invited will enjoy my banquet.’”  

>John 12:32 (CSB) As for me, if I am lifted up from the earth I will draw all people to myself.”

>1 Timothy 2:1-6 (CSB) First of all, then, I urge that petitions, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for everyone, for kings and all those who are in authority, so that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity. This is good, and it pleases God our Savior, who wants everyone to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.
>
>For there is one God and one mediator between God and mankind, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all, a testimony at the proper time.

>Romans 2:1-8 (CSB) Therefore, every one of you who judges is without excuse. For when you judge another, you condemn yourself, since you, the judge, do the same things. Now we know that God’s judgment on those who do such things is based on the truth. Do you think—anyone of you who judges those who do such things yet do the same—that you will escape God’s judgment? Or do you despise the riches of his kindness, restraint, and patience, not recognizing that God’s kindness is intended to lead you to repentance? Because of your hardened and unrepentant heart you are storing up wrath for yourself in the day of wrath, when God’s righteous judgment is revealed. He will repay each one according to his works: eternal life to those who by persistence in doing good seek glory, honor, and immortality; but wrath and anger to those who are self-seeking and disobey the truth while obeying unrighteousness.

>John 3:16-18 (CSB) For God loved the world in this way: He gave his one and only Son, so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him. Anyone who believes in him is not condemned, but anyone who does not believe is already condemned, because he has not believed in the name of the one and only Son of God.

>Romans 1:16-17 (CSB) For I am not ashamed of the gospel, because it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, first to the Jew, and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, just as it is written: The righteous will live by faith.

```text
What are the excuses that people say now for not following Christ?
```

---
### Christ Came to Command Us to Follow

>Luke 14:25-35 (CSB) Now great crowds were traveling with him. So he turned and said to them, “If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters—yes, and even his own life—he cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple.
>
>“For which of you, wanting to build a tower, doesn’t first sit down and calculate the cost to see if he has enough to complete it? Otherwise, after he has laid the foundation and cannot finish it, all the onlookers will begin to ridicule him, saying, ‘This man started to build and wasn’t able to finish.’
>
>“Or what king, going to war against another king, will not first sit down and decide if he is able with ten thousand to oppose the one who comes against him with twenty thousand? If not, while the other is still far off, he sends a delegation and asks for terms of peace. In the same way, therefore, every one of you who does not renounce all his possessions cannot be my disciple.
>
>“Now, salt is good, but if salt should lose its taste, how will it be made salty? It isn’t fit for the soil or for the manure pile; they throw it out. Let anyone who has ears to hear listen.”

```text
What has it cost you to follow Christ?

What is the cost of following Christ?
```

---

## 

### Westminster Larger Catechism

Q.

### Christ Came to Find the Lost

>Luke 15:1-7 (CSB) All the tax collectors and sinners were approaching to listen to him. And the Pharisees and scribes were complaining, “This man welcomes sinners and eats with them.”
>
>So he told them this parable: “What man among you, who has a hundred sheep and loses one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the open field and go after the lost one until he finds it? When he has found it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders, and coming home, he calls his friends and neighbors together, saying to them, ‘Rejoice with me, because I have found my lost sheep!’ I tell you, in the same way, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous people who don’t need repentance.

>Psalms 23 (CSB)
>The LORD is my shepherd;  
>I have what I need.  
>He lets me lie down in green pastures;  
>he leads me beside quiet waters.  
>He renews my life;  
>he leads me along the right paths  
>for his name’s sake.  
>Even when I go through the darkest valley,  
>I fear no danger,  
>for you are with me;  
>your rod and your staff—they comfort me.  
>You prepare a table before me  
>in the presence of my enemies;  
>you anoint my head with oil;  
>my cup overflows.  
>Only goodness and faithful love will pursue me  
>all the days of my life,  
>and I will dwell in the house of the LORD  
>as long as I live.

>Mark 2:17 (CSB) When Jesus heard this, he told them, “It is not those who are well who need a doctor, but those who are sick. I didn’t come to call the righteous, but sinners.”

```text
1. In this passage, who is Christ calling, "righteous?"

2. Why did Christ did not come to save the righteous?

3. Were you born with any righteousness before God?

4. What must you do to be righteous with God? (Read John 3:1-15)
```

---

## 

### Westminster Larger Catechism

Q.

### Christ Came to Rejoice Over His People

>Luke 15:8-10 (CSB) “Or what woman who has ten silver coins, if she loses one coin, does not light a lamp, sweep the house, and search carefully until she finds it? When she finds it, she calls her friends and neighbors together, saying, ‘Rejoice with me, because I have found the silver coin I lost!’ I tell you, in the same way, there is joy in the presence of God’s angels over one sinner who repents.”

>Zephaniah 3:14-18 (CSB)  
> 
>Sing for joy, Daughter Zion;  
>shout loudly, Israel!  
>Be glad and celebrate with all your heart,  
>Daughter Jerusalem!  
>The LORD has removed your punishment;  
>he has turned back your enemy.  
>The King of Israel, the LORD, is among you;  
>you need no longer fear harm.  
>On that day it will be said to Jerusalem:  
>“Do not fear;  
>Zion, do not let your hands grow weak.  
>The LORD your God is among you,  
>a warrior who saves.  
>He will rejoice over you with gladness.  
>He will be quiet in his love.  
>He will delight in you with singing.”  
>I will gather those who have been driven  
>from the appointed festivals;  
>they will be a tribute from you  
>and a reproach on her.

```text
1. When someone repents of sin, how do angels react?

2. When someone repents, how does God react?
```

---

## 

### Westminster Larger Catechism

Q.

### Christ Came to Save Us

>Luke 15:11-32 (CSB) He also said, “A man had two sons. The younger of them said to his father, ‘Father, give me the share of the estate I have coming to me.’ So he distributed the assets to them. Not many days later, the younger son gathered together all he had and traveled to a distant country, where he squandered his estate in foolish living. After he had spent everything, a severe famine struck that country, and he had nothing. Then he went to work for one of the citizens of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed pigs. He longed to eat his fill from the pods that the pigs were eating, but no one would give him anything. When he came to his senses, he said, ‘How many of my father’s hired workers have more than enough food, and here I am dying of hunger! I’ll get up, go to my father, and say to him, “Father, I have sinned against heaven and in your sight. I’m no longer worthy to be called your son. Make me like one of your hired workers.”’ So he got up and went to his father. But while the son was still a long way off, his father saw him and was filled with compassion. He ran, threw his arms around his neck, and kissed him. The son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and in your sight. I’m no longer worthy to be called your son.’
>
>“But the father told his servants, ‘Quick! Bring out the best robe and put it on him; put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet. Then bring the fattened calf and slaughter it, and let’s celebrate with a feast, because this son of mine was dead and is alive again; he was lost and is found!’ So they began to celebrate.
>
>“Now his older son was in the field; as he came near the house, he heard music and dancing. So he summoned one of the servants, questioning what these things meant. ‘Your brother is here,’ he told him, ‘and your father has slaughtered the fattened calf because he has him back safe and sound.’
>
>“Then he became angry and didn’t want to go in. So his father came out and pleaded with him. But he replied to his father, ‘Look, I have been slaving many years for you, and I have never disobeyed your orders, yet you never gave me a goat so that I could celebrate with my friends. But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your assets with prostitutes, you slaughtered the fattened calf for him.’
>
>“‘Son,’ he said to him, ‘you are always with me, and everything I have is yours. But we had to celebrate and rejoice, because this brother of yours was dead and is alive again; he was lost and is found.’”

>Numbers 11:23 (CSB) The LORD answered Moses, “Is the LORD’s arm weak? Now you will see whether or not what I have promised will happen to you.”

>Isaiah 50:2 (CSB)
>Why was no one there when I came?  
>Why was there no one to answer when I called?  
>Is my arm too weak to redeem?  
>Or do I have no power to rescue?  
>Look, I dry up the sea by my rebuke;  
>I turn the rivers into a wilderness;  
>their fish rot because of lack of water  
>and die of thirst.  

>Isaiah 59:1 (CSB) Indeed, the LORD’s arm is not too weak to save,
>and his ear is not too deaf to hear.

```text
1. Does God have T-Rex arms?

2. Is any person ever too far from God?

3. Does God ever reject anyone who would come to him?
```

>Mark 10:14-16 (CSB) When Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them, “Let the little children come to me. Don’t stop them, because the kingdom of God belongs to such as these. Truly I tell you, whoever does not receive the kingdom of God like a little child will never enter it.” After taking them in his arms, he laid his hands on them and blessed them.

>Matthew 11:28-30 (CSB) “Come to me, all of you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. Take up my yoke and learn from me, because I am lowly and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light.”