---
title: "Home Devotions: Mark 8:22–26 Jesus Opens Our Eyes So That We Would See God"
author: Joseph Louthan
publishDate: 2021-12-06T06:00:00-06:00
url: /home-devotions/2021-12-06-home-devos-mark/
categories:
  - Home Devotions
tags:
  - "Mark"
series:
  - "Home Devotions: Mark"
tocopen: true
css: "home-devos"
draft: false
---
## The Text

>Mark 8:22–26 (CSB)  
><sup>22</sup> They came to Bethsaida. They brought a blind man to him and begged him to touch him. 

><sup><sup> 23 </sup></sup> He took the blind man by the hand and brought him out of the village. Spitting on his eyes and laying his hands on him, he asked him, “Do you see anything?” 

><sup> 24 </sup> He looked up and said, “I see people—they look like trees walking.” 

><sup> 25 </sup> Again Jesus placed his hands on the man’s eyes. The man looked intently and his sight was restored and he saw everything clearly. 

><sup> 26 </sup> Then he sent him home, saying, “Don’t even go into the village.”

## The Devotion

###

>Ecclesiastes 1:8-9 (CSB)
All things are wearisome,
more than anyone can say.
The eye is not satisfied by seeing
or the ear filled with hearing.
9 What has been is what will be,
and what has been done is what will be done;
there is nothing new under the sun.

###

>Matthew 5:29 (CSB)
If your right eye causes you to sin, gouge it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell.


###

>Psalms 16:10 (CSB)
10 For you will not abandon me to Sheol;
you will not allow your faithful one to see decay.

###

>1 Corinthians 2:7-12 (CSB)
On the contrary, we speak God’s hidden wisdom in a mystery, a wisdom God predestined before the ages for our glory. 8 None of the rulers of this age knew this wisdom, because if they had known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. 9 But as it is written,
What no eye has seen, no ear has heard,
and no human heart has conceived —
God has prepared these things for those who love him.
10 Now God has revealed these things to us by the Spirit, since the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God. 11 For who knows a person’s thoughts except his spirit within him? In the same way, no one knows the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God. 12 Now we have not received the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who comes from God, so that we may understand what has been freely given to us by God.

###

>Psalms 40:3 (CSB)
3 He put a new song in my mouth,
a hymn of praise to our God.
Many will see and fear,
and they will trust in the LORD.

###

>Psalms 34:8 (CSB)
8 Taste and see that the LORD is good.
How happy is the person who takes refuge in him!

###

>Matthew 6:22-24 (CSB)
“The eye is the lamp of the body. If your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light. 23 But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. So if the light within you is darkness, how deep is that darkness!
24 “No one can serve two masters, since either he will hate one and love the other, or he will be devoted to one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money.

###

>Psalms 11:7 (CSB)
7 For the LORD is righteous; he loves righteous deeds.
The upright will see his face.

###

>Psalms 17:15 (CSB)
15 But I will see your face in righteousness;
when I awake, I will be satisfied with your presence.

###

>Psalms 27:13 (CSB)
13 I am certain that I will see the LORD’s goodness
in the land of the living.

###

>Psalms 36:9 (CSB)
9 For the wellspring of life is with you.
By means of your light we see light.

## The Discussion

```text
1. 
```

```text
2. 
```

```text
3. 
```

```text
4. 
```

## The Prayer

<div style='font-variant: small-caps;'>

</div>

```text

```

## The Media

Today's episode at [The Study](http://study.theologic.us/podcast/)

\[[Apple](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-study/id1557102127)\]\[[Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/show/0Xs5qsNvWePyRqcmtOTPkR)\]\[[YouTube](http://youtube.theologic.us)\]\[[Twitch](http://twitch.theologic.us)\]\[[Discord](http://discord.theologic.us)\]
