---
title: "Meditations: 1 Timothy 2:8-15 Worship in Christ"
author: Joseph Louthan
publishDate: 2021-03-10T06:00:00-06:00
url: /meditations/2021-03-10-1st-timothy/
categories:
  - Meditations
tags:
  - "1 Timothy"
series:
  - "Meditations: Pastoral Epistles"
css: "prayers"
showtoc: true
draft: false
---

## The Text

>1 Timothy 2:8-15 (CSB) Therefore, I want the men in every place to pray, lifting up holy hands without anger or argument. Also, the women are to dress themselves in modest clothing, with decency and good sense, not with elaborate hairstyles, gold, pearls, or expensive apparel, but with good works, as is proper for women who profess to worship God. A woman is to learn quietly with full submission. I do not allow a woman to teach or to have authority over a man; instead, she is to remain quiet. For Adam was formed first, then Eve. And Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and transgressed. But she will be saved through childbearing, if they continue in faith, love, and holiness, with good sense.

## The Meditation

It is really hard to read this with American eyes. Isn't it? When the culture that you live in celebrates authority, power, leadership, and self-reliance. We can read the 2nd chapter of 1 Timothy and instead of worshipping God in Christ by the power of the Spirit, we can instead make this chapter or passage about something it might not. Why? Because culture wants to make it something it isn't about.

Let us deal with the elephant in the room. Because I don't think any other passage in this passage is as controversial as this:

### I do not allow a woman to teach or to have authority over a man; instead, she is to remain quiet

Let us not forget the beginning of the chapter where Paul tells Timothy:

>1 Timothy 2:1-2 (CSB) First of all, then, I urge that petitions, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for everyone, for kings and all those who are in authority, so that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity.

Men, you lead a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity.

Women, you do the same.

We can speculate why Paul had to remind Timothy to "lead a tranquil" life. I don't know. Maybe they were loud and obnoxious like me. I read this in context of 1 Timothy, and it seems to me that Timothy's church may not be perfect. But anybody who has been in the church for any amount of time, we know that church can be off the rails--getting bogged down in things that don't really matter.

So our church folks don't interrupt services. But they can sure get loud on social media. So maybe, when we read the Bible and the instructions for the people of the church, we have and will never out grown it.

So when I read:

>I do not allow a woman to teach or to have authority over a man; instead, she is to remain quiet

And yet I am charged by God with keep all of the Scripture in mind:

>Judges 4:4 (CSB) Deborah, a prophetess and the wife of Lappidoth, was judging Israel at that time.

>Romans 16:1-6 (CSB) I commend to you our sister Phoebe, who is a servant of the church in Cenchreae. So you should welcome her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints and assist her in whatever matter she may require your help. For indeed she has been a benefactor of many—and of me also.
>
>Give my greetings to Prisca and Aquila, my coworkers in Christ Jesus, who risked their own necks for my life. Not only do I thank them, but so do all the Gentile churches. Greet also the church that meets in their home. Greet my dear friend Epaenetus, who is the first convert to Christ from Asia. Greet Mary, who has worked very hard for you.

Many translations call Phoebe a deaconness.

>Acts 18:24-26 (CSB) Now a Jew named Apollos, a native Alexandrian, an eloquent man who was competent in the use of the Scriptures, arrived in Ephesus. He had been instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in spirit, he was speaking and teaching accurately about Jesus, although he knew only John’s baptism. He began to speak boldly in the synagogue. After Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him aside and explained the way of God to him more accurately.

Both wife and husband took Apollos aside and gave him some theological and doctrinal teaching and sent him on his way.

>John 20:17-18 (CSB) “Don’t cling to me,” Jesus told her, “since I have not yet ascended to the Father. But go to my brothers and tell them that I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God.”
>
>Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, “I have seen the Lord!” And she told them what he had said to her.

The Lord tells Mary to go and preach the gospel. Mary goes and preaches the good news to the Apostles of Jesus Christ.

Lord tells us to go and proclaim his good news. Should we not do likewise?

I cannot read this and think Paul wanted all women to shut up. What I read is that Christians are to live tranquil and quiet lives. Women shutting up doesn't line up with the rest of the Bible. See the book of Esther.

Us being tranquil and quiet? That falls in line with the rest of the Scripture.

All of that aside, here is how to worship in Christ.

### Therefore, I want the men in every place to pray, lifting up holy hands without anger or argument

This is not a call to pray an external way but rather a posture of the heart and mind and soul underneath Christ.

### Also, the women are to dress themselves in modest clothing, with decency and good sense, not with elaborate hairstyles, gold, pearls, or expensive apparel, but with good works, as is proper for women who profess to worship God

Isn't this a summation of the Old Testament. In other words, **don't look like the world**. In other words, if the world looks upon us and sees no difference between them and us, what is even the point? Let me tell you something: the world wants to change the parts of our faith because there are hard sayings in the Bible. Some of our brothers and sisters in the faith have compromised some of their teaching thinking and hoping that more people would attend their church. The world is not interested in attending their church--they just want you to stop saying hard sayings of the Bible.

The hard sayings are right there. They are going nowhere. Even when wicked men, who profited off the kidnapping and enslavement of African natives in the Western world, and with no fear of an Almighty, Wrathful, Vengeful God, would cut out large portions of the Bible--like Exodus--and hand it over to slaves. Every single Bible passage that loudly proclaims that the Lord has come to set the captives free will be there forever.

We can choose to ignore and not teach certain parts of the Bible. But ignoring it won't make it go away.

### For Adam was formed first, then Eve. And Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and transgressed. But she will be saved through childbearing, if they continue in faith, love, and holiness, with good sense

We keep this in mind with Romans 5:12-21. In other words, no one in their right mind would suggest that Paul is saying that Adam did not sin. Woman was deceived and transgressed. Adam was passively not protecting his wife and transgressed. I know because of Genesis 3 and Romans 5:12-21.

As far as being saved through childbearing. That isn't exclusive for women. That is exclusively for all believers. This ties right back to the first proclamation of the gospel:

>Genesis 3:15 (CSB) I will put hostility between you and the woman,  
>and between your offspring and her offspring.  
>He will strike your head,  
>and you will strike his heel.

And

>Galatians 3:16 (CSB) Now the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. He does not say “and to seeds,” as though referring to many, but referring to one, and to your seed, who is Christ.

What is the Bible about? Jesus Christ. When in doubt, ask yourself, "What does this say about God?"

### if they continue in faith, love, and holiness, with good sense

The marks of the believer.

## The Prayer

<div style="font-variant: small-caps;">
Our God
</div>

```text
Keep our eyes focused on you

Amen
```
