---
title: "Meditations: 1 Timothy 1:18-20 Christ our All"
author: Joseph Louthan
publishDate: 2021-02-24T06:00:00-06:00
url: /meditations/2021-02-24-1st-timothy/
categories:
  - Meditations
tags:
  - "1 Timothy"
series:
  - "Meditations: Pastoral Epistles"
css: "prayers"
showtoc: true
draft: false
---

## The Text

> 1 Timothy 1:18-20 (CSB) Timothy, my son, I am giving you this instruction in keeping with the prophecies previously made about you, so that by recalling them you may fight the good fight, having faith and a good conscience, which some have rejected and have shipwrecked the faith. Among them are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have delivered to Satan, so that they may be taught not to blaspheme.

## The Devotion

### the prophecies previously made about you

> 1 Timothy 4:11-16 (CSB) Command and teach these things. Don’t let anyone despise your youth, but set an example for the believers in speech, in conduct, in love, in faith, and in purity. Until I come, give your attention to public reading, exhortation, and teaching. Don’t neglect the gift that is in you; it was given to you through prophecy, with the laying on of hands by the council of elders. Practice these things; be committed to them, so that your progress may be evident to all. Pay close attention to your life and your teaching; persevere in these things, for in doing this you will save both yourself and your hearers.

> 2 Peter 1:20-21 (CSB) Above all, you know this: No prophecy of Scripture comes from the prophet’s own interpretation, because no prophecy ever came by the will of man; instead, men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit.

> 1 Corinthians 14:22 (CSB) peaking in tongues, then, is intended as a sign, not for believers but for unbelievers, while prophecy is not for unbelievers but for believers.

Prophecy, in short, points to all of what Christ has done. In the OT, it is what Christ was going to do based on the promises of God. Now we have Christ revealed, crucified, resurrected and ascended, we get to admonish, encourage and point all believers back to the finish work of Christ. We have all received Godly encouragement in one form or another. Prophecy is a bit more specific. It hits closer to the heart. But it is no less tested by the word of the Lord.

(Anybody who says you cannot test all prophecy against Scripture isn't trying hard enough. No need to rush. Just pray to the Spirit and he will bring to remembrance all that God has said and taught.)

### when we remember, we get to fight, have faith and a good conscience

If you ever receive a prophetic word, write it down as soon as you can and keep it. Don't ever forget it. A proper, tested prophetic word is from God alone. It will carry you, sustain you, and encourage you for years.

I am not going to sit here and talk about "your destiny" (because if you are saved, you have been predestined to God) or "where you need to be" (because God is sovereign) and then rant into some legalism that says you have to try harder whereas Christ as Lord is telling you that his burden is easy and his yoke is light.

However when you are directed by God, it will keep you face like flint and your feet pointed in the proper direction. Remember God operates out of time: what feels like forever to us is not forever to him. This goes back to obeying Christ in trusting Him and take him at his word.

### don't shipwreck your faith

> which some have rejected and have shipwrecked the faith. Among them are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have delivered to Satan, so that they may be taught not to blaspheme.

In other words, don't say "God is this" when the Bible says, "God is that". Paul was so grieved to the core about those who have shipwrecked their faith that he rather turn them over to Satan rather than them to blaspheme God. You might think that is strange. But always keep this in mind: where we are at now is not where we are going. Somebody might be in sin--they might be in the clutches of Satan himself--but salvation belongs to the Lord for he is the only one mighty to save.

To turn blasphemers over to Satan might seem like a gamble. But is only the sheer grace of our Lord and Savior that can bring anybody home.

## The Prayer

<div style="font-variant: small-caps;">
Almighty Savior
</div>

```text
As the song goes
  we are little ones
  that belong to you
  we are weak
  but you are strong.

I have seen prophecy
  sustain me
  through my darkest times
  and sustain others
  through trials and tribulations

God
  help us all
  to gladly receive these words
  and test them against your word
  so you can sustain us
  all of our days.

Lord
  we pray for those who have walked away
  from the faith and church
  and using modern philosophy
  to make sense of who you are
  Only you
  can reveal to mankind
  who you really are
  So would you shine your glory
  show your face
  smile down upon us
  be gracious
  in the light of your countenance
  and give us peace.

We love you.

Amen.
```
