---
title: "Meditations: 1 Timothy 1:1–11 Christ our Grace"
author: Joseph Louthan
publishDate: 2021-02-10T06:00:00-06:00
url: /meditations/2021-02-10-meditations-pastorals/
categories:
  - Meditations
tags:
  - "1 Timothy"
series:
  - "Meditations: Pastoral Epistles"
css: "prayers"
showtoc: true
draft: false
---

## The Text

> 1 Timothy 1:1–11 (CSB) Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope:  To Timothy, my true son in the faith. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.  As I urged you when I went to Macedonia, remain in Ephesus so that you may instruct certain people not to teach false doctrine  or to pay attention to myths and endless genealogies. These promote empty speculations rather than God’s plan, which operates by faith.  Now the goal of our instruction is love that comes from a pure heart, a good conscience, and a sincere faith.  Some have departed from these and turned aside to fruitless discussion.  They want to be teachers of the law, although they don’t understand what they are saying or what they are insisting on.  But we know that the law is good, provided one uses it legitimately.  We know that the law is not meant for a righteous person, but for the lawless and rebellious, for the ungodly and sinful, for the unholy and irreverent, for those who kill their fathers and mothers, for murderers,  for the sexually immoral and males who have sex with males, for slave traders, liars, perjurers, and for whatever else is contrary to the sound teaching  that conforms to the gospel concerning the glory of the blessed God, which was entrusted to me.

## The Meditation

> Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope:  To Timothy, my true son in the faith. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.

There is only one God. And he is the maker of heaven and earth. Grace, mercy, and peace come only the God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.  We stand on the foundation of Christ whom has used the Apostles and the early church to build His kingdom.

> As I urged you when I went to Macedonia, remain in Ephesus so that you may instruct certain people not to teach false doctrine or to pay attention to myths and endless genealogies. These promote empty speculations rather than God’s plan, which operates by faith.

There was a time in my own lifetime either we didn't face such misinformation or I wasn't paying attention to it. The American church has been disrupted and splintered dude to myths, endless genealogies and empty speculations rather focusing on the plan of God--which was always the gospel of Christ. This requires faith from God to God.[^1]

[^1]: Romans 1:16-17

> Now the goal of our instruction is love that comes from a pure heart, a good conscience, and a sincere faith.

This is why Paul instructs in, in the middle of eagerly desiring the gifts of the Spirit such as prophecy and praying in tongues[^2], that we should do all things in love. I am reminded of the greatest and second greatest commandment: Love God and love one another. This is all in vain if I do not sincerely love the people I am ministering to.

[^2]: 2 Corinthians 12 & 14

> Some have departed from these and turned aside to fruitless discussion.  They want to be teachers of the law, although they don’t understand what they are saying or what they are insisting on. But we know that the law is good, provided one uses it legitimately.  We know that the law is not meant for a righteous person, but for the lawless and rebellious, for the ungodly and sinful, for the unholy and irreverent, for those who kill their fathers and mothers, for murderers,  for the sexually immoral and males who have sex with males, for slave traders, liars, perjurers, and for whatever else is contrary to the sound teaching  that conforms to the gospel concerning the glory of the blessed God, which was entrusted to me.

This hurts my heart. I have known way too many people who have turned away from the gospel only to increase the law which only exposes more sin that they do not want to repent of.  But repentance is a gift of God alone. I can only pray and proclaim the gospel to them.  Will God grant them repentance?

## The Prayer

<div style="font-variant: small-caps;">
The Savior of the World
</div>

```text
You are the way
  the truth
  the light
  and no one comes
  to the Father my God
  but by you.

You are the only one who gives us
  grace upon grace
  mercies new every morning
  and peace beyond all understanding.

This things are only from God
  and you are the source of all things goof
  and you give freely to all who would receive it.

My Lord
  there have been so many
  who have lived in your goodness and mercy
  and have stepped away
  for one reason or another
  hurts
  wounds
  scars
  pain
  sometimes
  sin
  and holding on
  to the only thing they have known
  more than you.

But my Father,
  I saw you
  be there for your children
  when you rescued them
  and they went back to their vomit
  they urged to go back to slavery to sin
  instead enjoying the freedom of the glory 
  of being your precious children.

Satan is ruthless
  and relentless
  and he preys on us
  because he is a wolf
  sending out his wolves
  into the sheep's den.

Jesus
  be my Good Shepherd
  protect us
  love us
  and keep us.

Beat back the wolves
  with your iron rod
  and your staff
  it comforts me
  all the days of my life.

Be our pastor
  and send help.

Amen.
```
