---
title: 'Luke 1:26-38 God Calls Us To Him'
author: Joseph Louthan
type: post
publishDate: 2019-12-11
url: /family-devos-luke/2019-12-11-family-devos-luke/
categories:
  - Devotions
tags:
  - 'Devotions: Luke'
draft: false
---
**Luke 1:26-38 In the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth,  to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. And the virgin’s name was Mary.  And he came to her and said, Greetings, O favored one, the Lord is with you!  But she was greatly troubled at the saying, and tried to discern what sort of greeting this might be.  And the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God.  And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus.  He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David,  and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end.**   

**And Mary said to the angel, How will this be, since I am a virgin?**

**And the angel answered her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore the child to be born will be called holy—the Son of God.  And behold, your relative Elizabeth in her old age has also conceived a son, and this is the sixth month with her who was called barren.  For nothing will be impossible with God.  And Mary said, Behold, I am the servant of the Lord; let it be to me according to your word. And the angel departed from her.**

Genesis 6:5-14 The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.  And the Lord regretted that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him to his heart.  So the Lord said, I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of the land, man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens, for I am sorry that I have made them.  But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord.    These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, blameless in his generation. Noah walked with God.  And Noah had three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.   Now the earth was corrupt in God’s sight, and the earth was filled with violence.  And God saw the earth, and behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted their way on the earth.  And God said to Noah, I have determined to make an end of all flesh, for the earth is filled with violence through them. Behold, I will destroy them with the earth.  Make yourself an ark of gopher wood. Make rooms in the ark, and cover it inside and out with pitch. 

Genesis 12:1-3 Now the Lord said to Abram, Go from your country and your kindred and your father’s house to the land that I will show you.  And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing.  I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.  

Exodus 3:1-7 Now Moses was keeping the flock of his father-in-law, Jethro, the priest of Midian, and he led his flock to the west side of the wilderness and came to Horeb, the mountain of God.  And the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. He looked, and behold, the bush was burning, yet it was not consumed.  And Moses said, I will turn aside to see this great sight, why the bush is not burned.  When the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called to him out of the bush, Moses, Moses! And he said, Here I am.  Then he said, Do not come near; take your sandals off your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground.  And he said, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look at God.   Then the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters. I know their sufferings, 

Isaiah 6:1-7 In the year that King Uzziah died I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up; and the train of his robe filled the temple.  Above him stood the seraphim. Each had six wings: with two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew.  And one called to another and said:   Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts; the whole earth is full of his glory!   And the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke.  And I said: Woe is me! For I am lost; for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips; for my eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts!   Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal that he had taken with tongs from the altar.  And he touched my mouth and said: Behold, this has touched your lips; your guilt is taken away, and your sin atoned for.  

Jeremiah 1:4-8 Now the word of the Lord came to me, saying,    Before I formed you in the womb I knew you, and before you were born I consecrated you; I appointed you a prophet to the nations.   Then I said, Ah, Lord God! Behold, I do not know how to speak, for I am only a youth.  But the Lord said to me,   Do not say, I am only a youth; for to all to whom I send you, you shall go, and whatever I command you, you shall speak.  Do not be afraid of them, for I am with you to deliver you, declares the Lord.  

Acts 9:1-6 But Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest  and asked him for letters to the synagogues at Damascus, so that if he found any belonging to the Way, men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem.  Now as he went on his way, he approached Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven shone around him.  And falling to the ground he heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?  And he said, Who are you, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting.  But rise and enter the city, and you will be told what you are to do.