---
title: Mark 8:34-9:1 We Must Die
author: Joseph Louthan
type: post
date: 2018-05-09T12:00:52+00:00
url: /family-devotions/mark-834-91-we-must-die/
featured_image: https://i2.wp.com/theologic.us/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/4546540e1e8acad0408a8a1834bb43fd.jpg?resize=630%2C429
categories:
  - Family Devotions
tags:
  - The Gospel of Mark

---
Mark 8:34-9:1 **And calling the crowd to him with his disciples, he said to them, “If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel&#8217;s will save it. For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? For what can a man give in return for his soul? For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him will the Son of Man also be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.”**

**And he said to them, “Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the kingdom of God after it has come with power.”**

Romans 6:1–14 **What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it? Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life.**

**For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free from sin. Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again; death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he died he died to sin, once for all, but the life he lives he lives to God. So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus.**

**Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, to make you obey its passions. Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.**

  1. What do you think Christ meant when he said, &#8220;we must lose our life&#8221; in order to follow him?
  2. Often, the &#8220;whosoever is ashamed of me&#8221; is used as a hard and fast rule to never deny Christ in company. What if you do? Do you not think there is grace upon grace for your soul?
  3. Who alone can preserve our lives?