---
title: 'Mark 15:6-15: Every Step Is Joy: Christ Is Exchanged For Us'
author: Joseph Louthan
type: post
date: 2019-02-21T12:00:04+00:00
url: /family-devotions/2019-02-21-mark-156-15.md/
categories:
  - Family Devotions
tags:
  - The Gospel of Mark
draft: false
---
Genesis 3:1–21 Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the LORD God had made.

He said to the woman, “Did God actually say, ‘You shall not eat of any tree in the garden’?” And the woman said to the serpent, “We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, ‘You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it, lest you die.’” But the serpent said to the woman, “You will not surely die. For God knows that when you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.” So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths.

And they heard the sound of the LORD God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the LORD God among the trees of the garden. But the LORD God called to the man and said to him, “Where are you?” And he said, “I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself.” He said, “Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat?” The man said, “The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit of the tree, and I ate.” Then the LORD God said to the woman, “What is this that you have done?” The woman said, “The serpent deceived me, and I ate.”

The LORD God said to the serpent,  
	“Because you have done this,  
		cursed are you above all livestock  
		and above all beasts of the field;  
	on your belly you shall go,  
		and dust you shall eat  
		all the days of your life.  
	I will put enmity between you and the woman,  
		and between your offspring and her offspring;  
	he shall bruise your head,  
		and you shall bruise his heel.”
	
To the woman he said,  
  “I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing;  
		in pain you shall bring forth children.  
	Your desire shall be contrary to your husband,  
		but he shall rule over you.”
	
And to Adam he said,  
  “Because you have listened to the voice of your wife  
		and have eaten of the tree  
	of which I commanded you,  
		‘You shall not eat of it,’  
	cursed is the ground because of you;  
		in pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life;  
	thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you;  
		and you shall eat the plants of the field.  
	By the sweat of your face  
		you shall eat bread,  
	till you return to the ground,  
		for out of it you were taken;  
	for you are dust,  
		and to dust you shall return.”
	
	
	The man called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living. **And the LORD God made for Adam and for his wife garments of skins and clothed them.**

**Mark 15:6-15 Now at the feast he used to release for them one prisoner for whom they asked. And among the rebels in prison, who had committed murder in the insurrection, there was a man called Barabbas. And the crowd came up and began to ask Pilate to do as he usually did for them. And he answered them, saying, “Do you want me to release for you the King of the Jews?” For he perceived that it was out of envy that the chief priests had delivered him up. But the chief priests stirred up the crowd to have him release for them Barabbas instead. And Pilate again said to them, “Then what shall I do with the man you call the King of the Jews?” And they cried out again, “Crucify him.” And Pilate said to them, “Why? What evil has he done?” But they shouted all the more, “Crucify him.” So Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd, released for them Barabbas, and having scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified.**