---
title: 'Mark 15:33-42 Every Step Is Joy: Christ Died For Us'
author: Joseph Louthan
type: post
date: 2019-03-13T12:00:04+00:00
url: /family-devotions/2019-03-13-mark-1533-42.md/
categories:
  - Family Devotions
tags:
  - The Gospel of Mark
draft: false
---
Matthew 1:21 She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins.”

**Mark 15:33-42 And when the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, “Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?” which means, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?” And some of the bystanders hearing it said, “Behold, he is calling Elijah.” And someone ran and filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on a reed and gave it to him to drink, saying, “Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to take him down.” And Jesus uttered a loud cry and breathed his last. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom. And when the centurion, who stood facing him, saw that in this way he breathed his last, he said, “Truly this man was the Son of God!”**

    **There were also women looking on from a distance, among whom were Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joses, and Salome. When he was in Galilee, they followed him and ministered to him, and there were also many other women who came up with him to Jerusalem.**

    **And when evening had come, since it was the day of Preparation, that is, the day before the Sabbath,**

Isaiah 53:10–12  
	Yet it was the will of the LORD to crush him;  
		he has put him to grief;  
	when his soul makes an offering for guilt,  
		he shall see his offspring; he shall prolong his days;  
	the will of the LORD shall prosper in his hand.  
	Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied;  
	by his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant,  
		make many to be accounted righteous,  
		and he shall bear their iniquities.  
	Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many,  
		and he shall divide the spoil with the strong,  
	because he poured out his soul to death  
		and was numbered with the transgressors;  
	yet he bore the sin of many,  
		and makes intercession for the transgressors.

Romans 5:6–11 For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person—though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die—but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life. More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.